# Sentiment-analysis-movie-review
Movie reviews are an important way to gauge the performance of a movie. While providing a numerical/stars rating to a movie tells us about the success or failure of a movie quantitatively, a collection of movie reviews is what gives us a deeper qualitative insight on different aspects of the movie. A textual movie review tells us about the the strong and weak points of the movie and deeper analysis of a movie review can tell us if the movie in general meets the expectations of the reviewer. Sentiment Analysis is a common NLP task that Data Scientists need to perform. This is a straightforward guide to creating a barebones movie review classifier in Python. This project shows how you can perform sentiment analysis on movie reviews using Python and Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK). Sentiment Analysis means analyzing the sentiment of a given text or document and categorizing the text/document into a specific class or category (like positive and negative). In other words, we can say that sentiment analysis classifies any particular text or document as positive or negative. Basically, the classification is done for two classes: positive and negative. However, we can add more classes like neutral, highly positive, highly negative, etc. In this project we aim to use Sentiment Analysis on a set of movie reviews given by reviewers and try to understand what their overall reaction to the movie was, i.e. if they liked the movie or they hated it. We aim to utilize the relationships of the words in the review to predict the overall polarity of the review.
